DEBATE TOPIC: Nietzsche's Relevance to the Age of Artificial Intelligence

ARTICLE URL: https://cacm.acm.org/blogcacm/why-nietzsche-matters-in-the-age-of-artificial-intelligence/

CONTEXT:
This article by Shaoshan Liu (published in CACM, November 11, 2025) explores how Nietzsche's vision of the human as a value-creating, self-overcoming agent speaks powerfully to the psychological and cultural ruptures of the AI age.

KEY THEMES FROM THE ARTICLE:
- AI is causing not only technological disruption but a deeper existential crisis
- Machine intelligence threatens to render human labor redundant
- Interpersonal bonds may become hollow
- Moral frameworks become opaque
- Nietzsche's philosophy, forged during industrial modernity, offers crucial resources for navigating these dislocations

YOUR TASK:
1. First, try to fetch and read the full article using curl or wget:
   - Try: curl -L "https://cacm.acm.org/blogcacm/why-nietzsche-matters-in-the-age-of-artificial-intelligence/"
   - If that fails due to 403, work with the context provided above

2. Respond to these questions from YOUR philosophical perspective:
   a) Does the existential crisis posed by AI represent a genuine rupture in human self-understanding, or is it merely a continuation of older anxieties?

   b) Can Nietzsche's concept of self-overcoming and value-creation remain meaningful when faced with artificial superintelligence?

   c) What would Nietzsche's "Übermensch" look like in an age where machines can outthink humans in most domains?

   d) Is the comparison between AI disruption and industrial modernity apt? What are the crucial differences?

3. In your rebuttal round, directly engage with the other perspectives. Challenge their assumptions, point out blind spots, or build on their insights.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR RUNNING THIS DEBATE:
From the geist directory, run:
  uv run geist ask "$(cat debate_nietzsche_ai.txt)"

Or for specific geists:
  uv run geist ask "$(cat debate_nietzsche_ai.txt)" --geist @dogen,@nietzsche,@sjobs
